JavaScript is used for functionality(on,off,close,open...)

Script is a process or language or function which run with another language it can't be run 
individually(additional embedded)

can be declared either in head or body but according formatting do in body

console.log: log is iteration log doesn't work on client it works on development

document.write: conten area(white area)

alert:when browser reload then a pop up on the top
why it works on only reload?-> Refreshing wipes out device memory variables, so if your code uses a fresh 
start to test a condition, it trips the trigger again.

object oriented top to bottom
class oriented bottom to top
dom prioritize alert instead of console.log

3 types of generic datatype:
    1.const -> can't intialize same variable again. Can't be change or re-declared
    2.var (pick last value of var)-> It overwrite the identifier
    3.let-> to reduce problem of var but it can be change or re-declared that's why it is different from 
            const.
Question: let a=12;
          var a=20;
    Ans: Can't run because var say one identifier initialzize once. Same with const.
Ques: which has high priority among let,var and const and why?
Ans:In JavaScript, const has the highest priority (best practice), followed by let, while var has the 
    lowest priority and should be avoided.
    because const has:
        Immutability: It prevents accidental changes. Once you assign a value, it cannot be reassigned.
        Security: It protects your data from being overwritten by other parts of the script.
        Readability: When other developers read your code, const tells them immediately that this value 
                     stays constant.
    let has:
        Block Scope: It only lives inside the curly braces {} where it is defined (like inside an if 
                     statement or a loop).
        Flexibility: It allows reassignment but prevents the bugs caused by var.
    var has:
        No Block Scope: It leaks outside of loops and if statements, causing unexpected bugs.
        Hoisting Issues: You can use a var variable before you even declare it in the code, which leads to 
                         confusing errors.
        Global Pollution: It easily attaches itself to the global window object.

JSON-> to store object because array doesn't provide to store obj. Key:value pair
datatype JSONname={
    key:value
}
format stored in array i.e [ ], 
[object Object]->object:datatype,
                 Object:type of object;
    For...in loop
The for...in loop iterates over all the keys (properties) of an object one by one. You use bracket 
notation [key] to get the corresponding value.

## DOM(Document Object Model)
DOM stands for Document Object Model. It is a programming interface that turns your HTML webpage into a 
logical tree structure (like a family tree) so that JavaScript can read, change, or style it dynamically.

ECMA(ES6) Feature in 2006
Features:
1.Filter:The filter() method in JavaScript is a built-in array function that creates a new array 
         containing only the elements that pass a specific condition. It evaluates each element using a 
         callback function: if the condition returns true, the element is kept; if it returns false, the 
         element is skipped.
Why we use it:
    •It Keeps Code Clean(Declarative vs. Imperative)
    •It Protects Your Data (Immutability)
    •It Allows Method Chaining
    •Real-World Use Cases-•Search Bars
                          •Feature Toggles
                          •Deleting Items
                   
2.Maps:We use the map() method in JavaScript because it transforms every single item in an existing array 
       and returns a brand new array of the exact same length.
While filter() removes items from a list, map() changes or reformats them.
Uses:
    •No Manual Loops
    •Preserves Original Data
    •Data Reformatting

3.reduce():The reduce() method in JavaScript is a built-in array function that executes a callback 
           function on each element of an array to combine them into a single cumulative value.
Why we use it:
    •Mathematical Calculations
    •Data Transformation (Grouping)
    •Flattens Nested Lists
    •Replaces Complex Logic

4.Destructuring:Destructuring is a special syntax introduced in JavaScript (ES6) that allows you to 
                unpack values from arrays, or properties from objects, directly into distinct variables.
Need:
    •Cleaner Code
    •Extracts Nested Data Easily
    •Readable Function Arguments

5.Spread Operator(...):The Spread Operator is a syntax feature in JavaScript represented by three 
                       consecutive dots (...). It allows an iterable—such as an array, object, or 
                       string—to be expanded ("spread") into individual elements or properties.
Need:
    •Simplifies Copying
    •Merges Data Easily
    •Converts Lists to Arguments

Sync:•Line-by-line, sequential order.
     •Blocking. Next line waits for the current one.
     •Basic logic, math, data mapping.
     •Can cause UI lag or freeze if slow.

Async:•Tasks run independently in the background.
      •Non-blocking. Code keeps moving forward.
      •API calls, timers, reading files.
      •Smooth UI; data loads seamlessly.
Use setTimeout

Callback:A callback function is a function passed as an argument into another function, to be executed 
         later.
Callback Hell:Callback Hell occurs when multiple asynchronous operations are nested inside one another.